Chicken Breasts Stuffed with Dried Cranberries and Port & Green Peppercorn Reduction

Makes 6 Servings

1/2 cup dried cranberries
1/4 cup port
2 tablespoons butter
1 large shallot, minced, about 1/4 cup
1/2 carrot, peeled and finely chopped
8 ounces white mushrooms, chopped
1 1/2 teaspoons chopped fresh marjoram
1/4 cup Madeira or dry sherry
1/3 cup plain dried breadcrumbs
2 ounces blue cheese, crumbled or use 2 ounces mascarpone or cream cheese
salt and pepper
6 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves


1. In a small saucepan, combine the cranberries and port. Bring to a boil and remove from the heat, let stand 10 minutes; drain. Preheat the oven to 350F.

2. Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat. Melt the butter and add the shallot and carrot; cook until starting to soften, about 2-3 minutes. Stir in the mushrooms and marjoram; cook, stirring occasionally, until the mushrooms soften, about 3-4 minutes. Add the Madeira and cook until the liquid evaporates, about 1-2 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the cranberries, breadcrumbs and cheese. Season with salt and pepper; allow to cool completely, about 15 minutes.

3. Working one at a time, with your knife parallel to the cutting board, slice the chicken breast halves horizontally, leaving a 1/4-inch hinge on one long side so that it opens like a book. Place the open breast half between two pieces of plastic wrap and pound it with a mallet or rolling pin to a 1/8-inch thickness. Repeat with remaining breast halves.

4. Place the 6 breast halves on a work surface, cut side up. Divide the stuffing into 6 portions and spread each breast with 1 portion of stuffing, leaving a 1-inch border around the edges. Fold the side edges in over the border and roll the breast up jelly-roll style. Secure the seam with toothpicks to keep the roll from opening up. Season with salt and pepper

5. In an oven proof skillet  large enough to hold the six breast halves, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the chicken rolls and brown 1-2 minutes per side. Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook 10-12 minutes or until a thermometer inserted into the center of the chicken reads 165F.  Remove the chicken from the oven and allow to rest 5 minutes. Cut each chicken roll into 5-6 slices.

Continued on to next page
 
Page #2


Port & Green Peppercorn Reduction

1 tablespoon butter
1/3 cup chopped shallots, about 2 medium
2 cups chicken stock
1/2 cup demi-glace
1/2 cup ruby port
1/3 cup dried cranberries
1 tablespoon raspberry vinegar
1 teaspoon chopped fresh marjoram
3/4 teaspoon drained green peppercorns in brine
3 tablespoons crème fraiche

1. Melt the butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add the shallots and cook 2 minutes until beginning to soften. Stir in the chicken stock and demi-glace; increase heat to high and bring to a boil. Reduce mixture to 1 1/4 cups, about 12-15 minutes. Strain the sauce into a small saucepan and add the port, cranberries, vinegar and marjoram. Bring to a boil over high heat and reduce mixture to 1 cup, about 10-12 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the green peppercorns and crème fraiche. Season with salt.
