Chicken Roulade with Gruyere, Caramelized Onions, and Thyme with Port Demi-Glace

serves 6

1 large yellow onion, thinly sliced
1 tablespoon olive oil
6 boneless, skinless, chicken breast halves
1 cup shredded Gruyere cheese
6 thyme sprigs, stripped, leaves reserved
salt and pepper
flour for dusting
canola oil for sautéeing
1/2 cup ruby port
2 cups veal stock
1 tablespoon butter

1. In a large sauté pan, warm the butter and olive oil over a medium flame. Add the sliced onions, and cook, slowly, until the onions begin to caramelize. When the onions are golden brown, remove them from the heat and allow to cool.

2. Butterfly the chicken breasts by placing one on your cutting board, slice the chicken breast open from the side, without cutting all the way through. You should be able to open the chicken breast like a book. If they are very large, pound slightly to flatten.

3. Lay the open chicken breast on your work surface. Sprinkle the open surface with the shredded Gruyere, place about a tablespoon of the onions over the cheese, and sprinkle on the thyme leaves. Season with salt and pepper, then roll the chicken up lengthwise. Secure with string or a toothpick.

4. Spread some flour on a dinner plate or sheet pan, and lightly coat each roulade with flour. Pat off any excess flour and set aside.

5. Heat a large sauté pan over medium heat. Coat the bottom with canola oil, and gently place the chicken roulades in the oil. Sauté until golden brown on all side. Keep the flame at a medium setting so as not to burn the pan. Remove the pan from the heat while you....

6.Transfer the roulades to a rack set over a sheet pan and finish cooking them in the oven, for about 10-12 minutes. When the chicken is cooked, set aside and keep warm. Slice the roulades on the bias when ready to serve.

7. Return the sauté pan to the stove and set over a medium flame. Wipe out any burned flour, and carefully pour the port into the pan. Cook the port until it reduces by to a glaze, then add the stock. Cook the stock until it reduces and thickens, about 10 minutes. Adjust the seasoning and stir in the butter. Serve over the chicken.


