CRAB CAKES WITH ROASTED PEPPER-CILANTRO SAUCE

To serve these delectable crab cakes as an appetizer rather than hors d'oeuvres, shape into 3-inch patties and serve 2 patties per person, arranged over a mound of frisée lettuce tossed with extra-virgin olive oil, salt, and pepper. If you aren't fond of cilantro, use basil instead in the sauce.

Makes fifty 1-inch patties

For the sauce:
4 red peppers, halved and seeded, stems removed
4 garlic cloves, peeled
3/4 cup tightly packed cilantro leaves
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional)
For the crab cakes:
1 pound jumbo lump crabmeat, picked over
1/2 cup mayonnaise, plus extra if needed
1/2 medium purple onion, finely minced
1/4 red pepper, finely minced
2 scallions, white part only, finely minced
grated zest of 1/2 lime
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
8 drops Tabasco
4 cups Japanese bread crumbs, plus extra if needed
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus extra if needed

Continued onto 2nd Page

Page # 2

1.	Make the sauce: Preheat the broiler. 

2.	Place the pepper halves on an aluminum-lined 11-inch x 17-inch baking sheet, cut side down, and broil in the preheated oven until the skins are blistered and black, about 15 minutes. Remove from the oven; wrap in the aluminum foil; set aside until cooled to room temperature.  (This can also be done on the stove-top)

3.	Unwrap the roasted peppers and slip off the skins. Cut into long, thin strips and place in a blender with the garlic, cilantro, olive oil, salt, and cayenne pepper. Process until smooth and creamy, about 30 seconds. Transfer to a bowl.

4.	Make the crab cakes: In a large bowl, combine the crab, mayonnaise, onion, red pepper, scallions, lime zest, salt, pepper, Tabasco, and 1 cup of the bread crumbs with your hands until the mixture holds together. If it does not hold together, add more mayonnaise and breadcrumbs. 

5.	Form the crab mixture into flat 1-inch patties, compacting it well with your hands so it holds together, and dredge in the remaining 3 cups of breadcrumbs to coat well on all sides. Place the crab cakes out a single layer on a tray.

6.	Heat the olive oil in a 14-inch skillet over a medium-high flame until it is very hot but not quite smoking. Fry the crab cakes in the hot olive oil in several batches, turning once; they should be golden-brown on both sides (if necessary, add more olive oil to the skillet). It will take about 3 minutes per side. Do not crowd the crab cakes into the skillet or they will not brown nicely nor will they acquire a delicious crisp crust.

7.	Remove the crab cakes with a slotted spoon to a platter lined with paper towels and blot dry. Serve hot, with the sauce. 


