Individual Apple Strudels with Caramel Sauce and Whipped Cream
Yields 6

8 tablespoons butter
2 1/4  pounds Granny Smith apples, about 6 apples, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch dice
4 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup apple juice
1/3 cup golden raisins  
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
9 sheets phyllo dough

1. Preheat oven to 350F. 

2.In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt 2 tablespoons of the  butter. Add the apples and 3 tablespoons of the sugar and cook, stirring occasionally, 3 minutes. Stir in the apple juice, raisins, cinnamon, vanilla, ginger and nutmeg. Cook, stirring occasionally, 8-10 minutes longer or until the apples are tender and the liquid has evaporated. Cool 10 minutes.

3. Melt the remaining 6 tablespoons of butter. Place 1 sheet of phyllo on a work surface so that the long side is closest to you; brush lightly with melted butter. Lay a second sheet pf phyllo on top of the first and brush lightly with butter. Repeat once more. Cut the phyllo in half vertically so that you have 2 rectangles to work with. Working with one rectangle at a time, place 1/2 cup of the apple filling on the left rectangle of phyllo, 2 inches from the edge closest to you.  Shape the apple filling into a cylinder that leaves a 1 1/2-inch border on the left and right sides and a 2-inch border on the edge nearest to you.  Fold left and right edges of the dough in over the apples so that a 1/2-inch strip of phyllo covers the apples on either side. Roll up jelly-roll style and brush the top edge with butter to help seal. Transfer to a parchment covered baking sheet and place seam side down; brush the top and sides lightly with butter. Repeat with the remaining rectangle and with the remaining apple filling and phyllo. 

4. Sprinkle the strudels with the remaining 1 tablespoon sugar. Bake 14-18 minutes or until crisp and lightly browned. Remove from oven and serve on top of a pool of caramel sauce. Dollop with whipped cream to finish.







Continued onto next page 
Page #2



Caramel Sauce

Makes 1 cup

1 cup sugar
4 tablespoons heavy cream
3 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons brandy
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

In a heavy bottomed saucepan, combine the sugar with 3 tablespoons of water. Over medium-high heat, cook, stirring slowly until the sugar melts. Continue cooking without stirring; gently swirl the saucepan, until the sugar turns a deep golden color. Remove from the heat and carefully add the heavy cream butter, brandy and vanilla (the mixture will steam); the caramel will harden slightly. Stir slowly with a whisk until the caramel loosens and becomes a sauce.




Whipped Cream

1 cup chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon

1. Combine cream, sugar and cinnamon in a medium bowl and beat with a wire whisk until stiff peaks form.
