Individual Chocolate Bread Puddings with Warm Ganache Center and Malt Ice Cream

Makes 6 servings

For the bread puddings:
1/2 cup heavy cream
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
3 tablespoons butter, cut into small pieces
2 cups milk
3 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 egg yolk, lightly beaten
2/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large loaf brioche (or firm white bread), cut into 1/2-inch cubes, 10 cups
For the Ganache:
7 tablespoons heavy cream
1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons butter
1/4 pound bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped

1. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the heavy cream to a boil. Remove from the heat and add the chocolate and butter, stirring until melted and smooth; transfer to a large bowl. Stir in the milk, eggs, egg yolk and brown sugar. Add the bread cubes and let them soak 30 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, combine the heavy cream, sugar and butter. Bring to a boil, remove from the heat and stir in the chocolate until melted and smooth. Strain the mixture through a wire mesh sieve and refrigerate until the chocolate sets, about 15 minutes. Roll ganache into (6) 1/2-inch balls; refrigerate until ready to assemble.

3. Preheat oven to 375F. Butter (6) ramekins and place them on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Densely pack the ramekins about halfway full with some of the bread cubes. Place a ball of ganache in the center of each ramekin, pack in more bread cubes to cover the ganache. Spoon extra chocolate custard over the puddings.

4. Bake puddings 20-25 minutes or until pudding is set. Remove from the oven and allow to rest 5 minutes. With a spatula transfer puddings to 6 serving plates. Remove the ramekins and sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar. Serve with a scoop of malt ice cream and a mint sprig. 

Optional garnishes: coffee caramel sauce, tuile cookies, fresh berries.


Continued on to second page


Malt Ice Cream

Makes 1 pint

3 eggs, lightly beaten
1 cup heavy cream
1 cup milk
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons chocolate malt powder
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
pinch of salt

1. Place eggs in a medium bowl.

2. In a medium saucepan, combine the heavy cream, milk, sugar, chocolate malt powder, vanilla extract and salt; mix well. Heat mixture over medium high heat until hot but not boiling. Slowly pour the cream mixture into the eggs, stirring constantly until combined. Return mixture to the saucepan and cook, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, over low heat until the mixture thickens and coats the back of a spoon, about 5-7 minutes. Immediately remove from the heat and pour mixture through a wire mesh strainer into a bowl. Place bowl in an ice water bath until cooled. 

3. Freeze in an ice cream maker according to manufacturers directions.


