LAMB CHOPS WITH ROSEMARY-GARLIC RUB IN CHIANTI GLAZE
The trick to moist, delicious lamb chops is two-fold: sear them in a very hot pan in a veil of oil (or on a hot grill if one is available); and finish them in a moderate oven until rosy inside. The method below, which calls for browning the chops in hot oil on the stovetop and slipping them into the oven for 10 minutes to finish cooking, is ideal for entertaining, since it allows you to do the messy cooking before guests arrive.

Serves 6

For the lamb chops:
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 ½  teaspoons fennel seeds, crushed in a mortar
1 ½  teaspoons salt
¼ teaspoon cracked black pepper
¼ teaspoon chili flakes (optional)
3 rosemary sprigs, leaves only, minced
3 thyme sprigs, leaves only, minced
Grated zest of 1 large lemon
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup Dijon mustard
30 baby lamb chops, Frenched
For the Chianti glaze:
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
8 button or Cremini mushrooms, chopped
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
1 carrot, chopped
2 garlic cloves, 1 peeled	and 1 minced
2 thyme sprigs
1 bay leaf
3 cups Chianti 
1 and 1/2 cups demi-glace (reduced brown veal stock)
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 tablespoon minced rosemary
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper



Continued onto 2nd Page

2nd Page


1.	Make the lamb chops: Combine all the ingredients except 2 tablespoons of the olive oil and the lamb chops in a shallow container or plate. Rub the lamb chops on both sides with the mixture, pressing with your hands so the mixture adheres on both sides. Allow the lamb chops to marinate for as long as possible--up to 2 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours in the refrigerator--before cooking.

2.	Meanwhile, make the sauce: Heat the oil in a 2-quart saucepan over a medium flame. Add the mushrooms, onion, carrot, peeled garlic, thyme, and bay leaf, and cook 10 minutes, or until the mushrooms have browned lightly and all of their liquid has evaporated.

3.	Add the Chianti and bring to a boil. Cook until the Chianti reduces to one-fifth of its original volume. Add the demi-glace and cook until the liquid in the pan reduces to an almost syrupy glaze, about 10 more minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into a clean pan. Return to a gentle boil. Add the butter, minced garlic, rosemary, salt, and pepper, and keep warm.

4.	Cook the lamb chops: Preheat the oven to 400°. 

5.	Heat a 14-inch sauté pan over a high flame for 3 minutes. Add 1 tablespoon of the remaining olive oil and brown 9 of the lamb chops (or as many as will fit in a single layer) on both sides, turning once, about 2 minutes per side. Transfer the browned lamb chops to a roasting rack set over a roasting pan, arranging them in a single layer. Repeat with the remaining tablespoon of olive oil and the remaining 9 lamb chops. (This step can be done up to 2 hours ahead; hold the browned lamb chops at room temperature until you are ready to finish them in the oven.)

6.	Slip the roasting pan in the preheated oven and cook the lamb chops 10 minutes, or until they are still rosy inside but cooked; a delicate pink juice should run out when the lamb chops are pierced. Serve hot, with twice-baked stuffed potatoes and slow-cooked spinach laced with nutmeg.

