Roasted Butternut Squash and Parsnip Soup with Herb Crackers

serves 6

Heat oven to 425

1 medium butternut squash, split lengthwise, seeds removed
2 medium parsnips, peeled, and roughly chopped
olive or canola oil
salt and pepper
1/2 cup diced onion
1/2 carrot, peeled and chopped
1 rib celery, chopped
1/2 cup white wine 
4 cups chicken stock, vegetable stock, or water
1/2 cup heavy cream or evaporated milk

1. Rub the cut surface of the squash with 1 tablespoon of oil and season well with salt and pepper. Place it cut side down on a sheet pan. Toss the cut parsnips with oil, salt and pepper to coat lightly and place alongside the squash.

2.  Place the vegetables in the oven and bake until very soft, about 30 minutes.

3.  Meanwhile, heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan. Add the onion, carrot, and celery, and cook until golden, about 15 minutes. Add the wine, and cook for another 5 minutes, allowing half the wine to evaporate.

Remove the saucepan from the heat and set aside until the squash is done.

4.  When the squash and parsnips are soft, remove  from the oven and allow to cool slightly. Scrape the squash flesh from the skin, and add the squash and parsnips  to the pot.

5.  Add the chicken stock and bring the soup to a simmer. Continue to simmer for about 20 minutes, to blend the flavors. Puree the soup with an immersion blender, and stir in the cream.

6. Season the soup with salt and pepper.










Continued onto page # 2
Page # 2

Herb Crackers

makes about 30 crackers

1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
pinch black pepper
2 tablespoons fresh chives, finely chopped
1 tablespoon fresh thyme, finely chopped
1 tablespoon rosemary, finely chopped
4 tablespoons chilled butter, diced
2-4 tablespoons water
kosher salt for sprinkling

1.  Heat oven to 325

2.  In a  food processor, combine flour, salt, pepper, and herbs. Add butter, and pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal. With the machine running, add water, drizzling it in and pulsing machine only until dough comes together.

3.  Transfer dough to a lightly floured surface, divide into 2 equal parts. Roll dough out into 10x12" sheets, 1/8" thick. Sprinkle with kosher salt, press the salt gently into the dough with your palms.

4.  Using a crimping wheel or fluted square cookie cutter, cut dough into 2 1/2" squares. Transfer to an ungreased baking sheet. Pierce squares liberally with a fork. Bake for 15-20 minutes, until crackers are just brown and firm to the touch. Transfer to a wire rack. Store in an airtight container.

