Warm Goat Cheese and Red Bliss Potato Tartlet with Beet Vinaigrette

serves 6

6 medium red bliss potatoes, washed and sliced into 1/4" thick rounds
1 teaspoon kosher salt
extra virgin olive oil
salt and pepper
1  11 oz. log goat cheese, warmed to room temperature
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 sprig rosemary, needles removed and minced
2 cups baby arugula, washed and dried
1 teaspoon  lemon juice

Heat oven to 400

1.  Place the potato slices in a saucepan and cover with cold water. Add the kosher salt, and place over a high flame. Bring the potatoes to a boil, then check them for doneness. They should be tender, but not mushy. Cook the potatoes until done, then drain them in a colander. DO NOT RINSE THEM.

2. Spread the potatoes out on a sheet pan to cool, then toss them with 1 tablespoon olive oil.

3. Lightly oil another sheet pan, then arrange the potatoes in 6 individual overlapping circles. The circles should be about 4-5 inches in diameter. Season the potatoes with salt and pepper and set aside.

4. In a small bowl, soften the goat cheese with a fork, and add the heavy cream, rosemary, and a little salt and pepper. Mash the cheese well, to create a smooth mixture. You can also whip the cheese with an electric mixer.

5. Place the cheese mixture in a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip, and pipe small rosettes over the surface of the potatoes, being careful to evenly distribute the cheese mixture over each potato tart.
 
6. Place the sheet pan in the oven and bake, for approximately 10-12 minutes, or until the cheese is lightly browned. Remove the pan from the oven and allow the tarts to cool slightly.

7. Using a wide spatula, carefully place a tart on a dinner plate. 

8. Toss the baby arugula with 1 tablespoon olive oil and 1 teaspoon lemon juice and place a small pile of arugula on the plate with the tart. Drizzle with beet vinaigrette.




Continued onto 2nd Page
Page # 2


Red Beet Vinaigrette

3 small red beets or 1 large beet
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon honey
1/4 cup red wine vinegar
1 cup extra virgin olive oil
salt and pepper

1. Heat oven to 400

2. Wash the beets and trim the root and stem ends. Lightly coat the beets with olive oil and wrap loosely in aluminum foil. Place the beets in the oven and roast for about 1 hour, or until a paring knife pierces the beets easily. The beets should be very soft. Remove from the oven and allow to cool until you can handle them.

3. Peel the beets by rubbing them with a paper towel until the skins are removed.


4. Place the beets in a blender with the Dijon mustard, honey and vinegar, and puree until smooth. 

5. Add the olive oil in small additions, pureeing between each addition, until all the oil is incorporated. Be careful, beets stain everything!

6. Season the dressing with salt and pepper, and if desired, place in a squeeze bottle.

7. Drizzle the beet vinaigrette over the goat cheese tartlet and serve immediately.

