Cider Glazed Cornish Hens with Apple Cornbread Stuffing

Serves 6


For the stuffing:
5 slices bacon, chopped
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/2 cup finely chopped  red bell pepper
1 tablespoon chopped fresh sage
1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves
6 cups cubed cornbread
1 Granny Smith apple, peeled, cored and finely chopped
1/2 cup chicken broth
1/2 cup apple cider or apple juice
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/8 teaspoon pepper 

For the hens:
6 Cornish hens, 1 1/4 pounds each
2 tablespoons melted butter
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
3 tablespoons honey
1/4 cup apple cider or apple juice
1 tablespoon cider vinegar
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin.

1. For the stuffing: in a large skillet set over medium-high heat, cook the bacon until crisp, about 5-6 minutes. Remove bacon with a slotted spoon and reserve. Reduce heat to medium and add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring, until the onion is translucent, about 5 minutes.  Stir in the bell pepper, sage and thyme; cook 1 minute longer. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl and stir in the cornbread, broth, cider, salt and pepper.

2. For the hens: Preheat the oven to 475 degrees.  Brush the hens all over with butter; season inside the cavity and the skin with the salt and pepper.  Loosely stuff the hens with the cornbread stuffing and truss the legs with string. Place the hens breast-side up on a wire rack set on a large sided baking sheet. Place any excess stuffing in a small ovenproof pan and cover with aluminum foil; set aside. Roast the hens 15 minutes.

3.  Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk together the honey, cider vinegar and cumin.  After the hens have roasted for 15 minutes, brush them with the cider mixture.  Reduce oven temperature to 400F and return hens to the oven along with the extra stuffing and roast the hens, brushing every 10 minutes with  pan drippings, until a thermometer registers 165F degrees when inserted into the stuffing in the hens, about 35-45 minutes longer. Remove the hens and the stuffing packet from the oven and allow to rest 5 minutes before serving.
 

