Pappardelle Pasta with Wild Mushroom Ragout and Cherry Tomatoes

serves 6

Pasta Dough:

2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon salt
2 eggs
2 tablespoons olive oil
1/4 cup water
cornmeal for dusting pans

1. In a large bowl stir together flour and salt.

2. Make a well in the center, and break the eggs into the well. Add the olive oil and HALF the water.

3.  Using a fork, start stirring the liquids into the flour, keep mixing until the dough gets too stiff to stir, then turn it out onto a floured work surface. Knead the dough, adding more water only as necessary. Knead until smooth, then wrap in plastic and allow torest for 30 minutes.

4. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and cover. Dust 2 sheet pans with cornmeal or flour.

5. Using a pasta machine on the widest setting, begin flattening small pieces of pasta through the rollers. Use your hands to adjust the size and shape of the pasta to form long rectangles, and repeat rolling through the machine, stepping down the rollers one number at a time. When all the pasta has been rolled to # 6 or 7, lay the sheets on cornmeal dusted baking sheets.

6. Roll each sheet up carefully, starting from the narrowest end. Using a very sharp knife, cut the pasta into 1" ribbons, and unroll immediately. Place the pasta ribbons back on the sheet pans.

7. Cook the pasta by dropping it into boiling water for 1-2 minutes. Drain and toss with the sauce to serve.












Continued onto 2nd Page
Page # 2

Wild Mushroom Ragout with Roasted Cherry Tomatoes

Mushrooms:
1/2  pound mixed wild mushrooms, such as cremini, portabella, chanterelle etc.
1/2 cup dried porcini mushrooms–soaked in 2 cups warm water, drained, soaking water reserved
2 shallots, minced
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons butter
1/2  cup white wine
1 cup chicken stock
salt and pepper

1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese for garnishing


1. Wipe the mushrooms clean with a damp paper towel, trim any hard stems, and cut them into thin slices. Cut the soaked porcini the same way.

2. Heat a large sauté pan or rondeau. Add the olive oil and butter and let the butter melt. Add the minced shallots. And sauté until soft and translucent, 1-2 minutes. Add the mushrooms, including the porcini, and sauté, stirring, until the mushrooms are soft and have released most of their moisture. This should take about 6–7 minutes. Make sure all the juice has evaporated, this is important in order to concentrate the flavors.

3. Add the white wine to the pan and cook until it’s all evaporated, then add the chicken stock and the strained, reserved, porcini soaking liquid. Continue cooking until the stock is reduced, about 10 minutes. You are looking for a thick, stew-like consistency. When the liquid is mostly evaporated season to taste with salt and pepper and stir in the roasted cherry tomatoes. Toss with the hot pasta and serve immediately, garnished with grated Parmesan cheese.

Roasted Cherry Tomatoes:
4 pints cherry tomatoes
extra virgin olive oil
salt and pepper

1.Heat oven to 400

2. In a bowl, toss the tomatoes with olive oil to coat them well. Season with salt and pepper, and lay them out on a sheet pan. 

3. Roast the tomatoes until they start to shrivel and the juice runs out of them, about 20-30 minutes. Keep checking them because when the juice starts to run, it will quickly burn. Remove tomatoes from pan and place in a small bowl. Add a little more oil or some water to loosen it up if necessary. Keep warm until use.
