CHICKEN BREASTS STUFFED WITH HERBED GOAT CHEESE AND SUNDRIED TOMATOES
The herbs used in the stuffing can vary depending on your mood and preference. Try a combination of rosemary, sage, and thyme instead for a sultrier flavor, or dill, parsley, and mint for a more subtle aroma.

Serves 6

For the chicken:
1 pound mild, spreadable goat cheese
12 oil-packed sundried tomatoes, drained
24 basil leaves
2 garlic cloves, minced
6 large boneless, skinless chicken breast halves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
For the sauce:
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 purple onion, halved and thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 cup dry white wine
1 cup chicken stock
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
grated zest of 1/2 lemon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
10 basil leaves, cut into long, thin strips

1.	Make the chicken: Preheat the oven to 425°.

2.	In the bowl of a food processor, combine the goat cheese, sundried tomatoes, basil, and garlic until smooth. Transfer to a piping bag fitted with a flat tip.

3.	Using a sharp paring knife, make a long pocket by inserting the tip of a sharp, long knife into each chicken breast, being careful not to tear the outside of the breast (you are not butterflying the breast: the breast should remain intact).  Insert the tip of the piping bag into the pocket you have created in each breast and stuff the chicken breasts with the goat cheese mixture; stuff the breasts as generously as possible.

Continued onto 2nd Page
2nd Page

4.	Season the outside of the chicken with the salt and pepper.

5.	Heat a 12-inch skillet over a medium-high flame. When it is hot, add the oilve oil and sear as many chicken breasts as will fit in a single layer until browned on both sides, about 2 minutes per side.

6.	Remove the seared breasts to a roasting rack set over a roasting pan. Roast the chicken breasts in the preheated oven until they are golden all over and cooked all the way through, about 20 minutes. 

7.	Meanwhile, make the sauce: Heat the olive oil in a 1-quart saucepan over a medium flame. Add the onion and cook 10 minutes, or until soft and very lightly golden around the edges, stirring often. Add the garlic and cook 1 more minute. Pour in the wine and cook until it reduces to one-quarter of its original volume. Pour in the stock and bring to a boil; cook until the sauce reduces to a glaze, about 10 minutes. Remove from the heat. Whisk in the mustard, lemon zest, salt, pepper, and basil; keep warm.

8.	Serve the chicken hot, sliced on the diagonal and with the sauce spooned over it, accompanied by polenta with porcini mushrooms and string beans with oregano.
